FINAL PLAN REQUEST — DATABASE ISOLATION SAFETY FIX
PLAN MODE ONLY.
DO NOT IMPLEMENT ANYTHING.

DO NOT RUN ANY TESTS.

DO NOT EXECUTE ANY DATABASE OPERATIONS.

I need the final, implementation-ready plan for fixing the dangerous database-isolation defect in:

tests/test_profile_consolidation.py

The plan you return should be sufficiently complete and technically rigorous that, after review and approval, it can be implemented exactly as written without additional design changes.

OBJECTIVE
The sole objective is:
Make tests/test_profile_consolidation.py structurally incapable of executing db.create_all(), db.drop_all(), test inserts, test deletes, or any other database mutation against PostgreSQL, Supabase, or any external database.

Every database operation performed by this test file must occur only against an isolated SQLite in-memory database.

This is a safety-critical fix following an incident in which this test's database isolation failed and destructive cleanup reached a real Supabase database.

Keep the change minimal and isolated.

KNOWN ROOT CAUSE
The current fixture attempts isolation using:
app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI'] = 'sqlite:///:memory:'

This is insufficient because Flask-SQLAlchemy may already have created and cached the application's engine in:

db._app_engines[app][None]

Changing SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI after engine initialization does not replace that cached engine.

Therefore operations such as:

db.engine
db.session
db.create_all()
db.drop_all()
can continue resolving against the previously cached PostgreSQL/Supabase engine.
The solution must temporarily replace the cached default engine with a dedicated SQLite in-memory engine and restore the exact original state afterward.

REQUIRED FINAL DESIGN
1. Capture the exact pre-test engine-map state
BEFORE changing anything, capture:
whether db._app_engines[app] contains the None bind key at all;
and, if it does, the exact object stored there.
Do not rely only on:
engines_map.get(None)

because that cannot distinguish:

key absent;
key present with value None.
The fixture must be capable of restoring the engine map to its exact pre-test state.
2. Create the isolated SQLite engine
Create a dedicated in-memory SQLite engine using:
sqlite:///:memory:
StaticPool
connect_args={"check_same_thread": False}
This engine exists solely for this fixture.
3. Begin try/finally BEFORE modifying the engine map
THIS IS REQUIRED.
Capture the original state and create sqlite_engine first.

Then enter:

try:

Only inside that protected try block may the fixture install the temporary SQLite engine into the Flask-SQLAlchemy engine map.

The lifecycle must conceptually be:

capture original engine-map state

create sqlite_engine

try:

install sqlite_engine

perform SQLite-only setup

yield test client

perform SQLite-only teardown

finally:

restore exact original engine-map state

dispose sqlite_engine

Do NOT install the SQLite engine before entering try.

This ensures restoration protection is already active before the engine map is modified.

4. Installing SQLite must be a pure Python engine-map operation
Installing the temporary engine must:
replace only the appropriate cached default-engine reference;
NOT call .dispose() on the displaced engine;
NOT call .connect() on the displaced engine;
NOT execute SQL;
NOT inspect the displaced database;
NOT perform session operations;
NOT perform migrations.
The original PostgreSQL/Supabase engine object may be temporarily displaced from the engine map, but otherwise it must remain completely untouched.
5. The displaced PostgreSQL/Supabase engine must NEVER be disposed
ABSOLUTE REQUIREMENT.
Do not copy a helper implementation that calls:

old.dispose()

The fixture must NEVER:

dispose the original engine;
close its pool;
connect to it;
query it;
test it;
perform cleanup against it.
Swapping a Python reference and disposing an engine are separate responsibilities.
Only the temporary SQLite engine created by this fixture may be disposed.

6. Add a fail-closed SQLite assertion
Add a helper that inspects the actual currently active db.engine and verifies that its SQLAlchemy dialect is SQLite.
Prefer checking the engine/dialect directly, e.g. the equivalent of:

db.engine.dialect.name == "sqlite"

rather than relying solely on string-prefix matching of the URL.

This guard must inspect the actual resolved engine, NOT:

app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI']

The safety assertion must execute immediately before every destructive schema operation in this fixture.

Specifically:

_assert_sqlite("setup")

must execute immediately before:

db.create_all()

and:

_assert_sqlite("teardown")

must execute immediately before:

db.drop_all()

There must be no intervening operation capable of changing the engine between the assertion and the corresponding schema operation.

If the active engine is not SQLite, the fixture must abort before the destructive operation executes.

The error should clearly state:

database isolation failed;
expected SQLite;
destructive operation was prevented.
Avoid unnecessarily exposing database credentials in the assertion message.
7. Test setup and execution must remain entirely on SQLite
After the SQLite engine is installed:
db.create_all() operates on SQLite;
fixture-created users operate on SQLite;
Flask test-client requests operate on SQLite;
db.session resolves against SQLite;
nested fixture operations resolve against SQLite;
teardown resolves against SQLite.
The original PostgreSQL/Supabase engine must not be restored until all SQLite-dependent teardown is complete.
8. Use explicit try/finally restoration
The finally block must execute regardless of:
test success;
test assertion failure;
unexpected test exception;
fixture setup failure;
db.create_all() failure;
_assert_sqlite("setup") failure;
fixture teardown failure;
_assert_sqlite("teardown") failure;
db.drop_all() failure.
The original engine-map state must be restored in every one of those cases once the temporary installation has been attempted.
9. Restore the EXACT pre-test state
Restoration must correctly handle both possibilities.
Case A: default engine key existed before test
Restore the exact original object:
engines_map[None] = original_engine

No engine method should be called.

Case B: default engine key did NOT exist before test
Remove the temporary None entry entirely.
Do NOT leave:

the SQLite engine;
a disposed SQLite engine;
a None placeholder;
any new default-engine entry that did not exist before the test.
After restoration, the default-engine entry must be structurally identical to its pre-test state.
10. Restoration must not access any database
Restoration must consist solely of Python-side engine-map manipulation.
It must NOT:

connect to Supabase;
query Supabase;
execute SQL;
inspect tables;
inspect schema;
manipulate sessions;
run migrations;
run create_all;
run drop_all;
dispose the original engine.
11. Dispose ONLY the temporary SQLite engine
After restoring the original engine-map state:
sqlite_engine.dispose()

may dispose the temporary in-memory SQLite engine.

The displaced application engine must NEVER be disposed by this fixture.

12. Cleanup must remain robust if SQLite disposal itself fails
The ordering must ensure the original engine-map state is restored before attempting to dispose SQLite.
Therefore, even if sqlite_engine.dispose() unexpectedly raises, the Flask-SQLAlchemy engine map has already been restored.

MINIMAL-SCOPE REQUIREMENT
The eventual implementation may modify:
tests/test_profile_consolidation.py

ONLY.

Do NOT propose modifications to:

tests/conftest.py
app.py
models.py
migration files
application routes
authentication
Flask configuration outside this fixture
Replit Secrets
deployment configuration
Supabase configuration
any other test file
DO NOT BUNDLE UNRELATED TEST FIXES
Preserve all existing tests and behavior unless a line must change specifically to establish safe database isolation.
Do NOT proactively change:

rider_type;
pass_type;
Resort fields;
model field names;
login/session behavior;
route expectations;
redirect assertions;
test data;
application behavior;
unrelated deprecated test patterns.
If those tests later fail for unrelated reasons, we will address them separately.
This task is database safety only.

DO NOT USE THE EXISTING DESTRUCTIVE HELPER BLINDLY
You may inspect the existing test infrastructure for conceptual guidance.
However, if an existing helper such as _swap_engine() disposes the displaced engine, DO NOT reuse that destructive behavior here.

The implementation for this file must satisfy the stricter lifecycle requirements in this prompt.

PLAN-MODE SAFETY RESTRICTIONS
For this planning task:
DO NOT MODIFY ANYTHING.

DO NOT EXECUTE ANYTHING.

Specifically, DO NOT:

edit files;
run pytest;
run an individual test;
collect tests;
start Flask;
start Gunicorn;
start the BaseLodge application;
invoke application startup for verification;
run migrations;
run Alembic;
execute db.create_all();
execute db.drop_all();
execute SQL;
connect to either Supabase project;
query either Supabase project;
perform read-only database verification;
inspect database tables through a live connection;
insert;
update;
delete;
truncate;
create;
alter;
drop;
modify SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL;
modify RECOVERED_SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL;
modify any Replit Secret;
reconnect BaseLodge;
deploy;
publish;
restart production;
change Git state.
Source-code inspection only is permitted.
DO NOT USE A REAL DATABASE TO VERIFY SAFETY
Do NOT propose:
querying the broken Supabase project after testing;
querying the recovered Supabase project after testing;
checking table counts on either real database;
connecting to either database as proof that the test was isolated.
A test-isolation fix should be provably safe without touching the thing it is designed not to touch.
Verification must rely on:

source-code inspection;
exact engine-state management;
fail-closed SQLite assertions;
the temporary SQLite engine;
and, only after separate approval later, isolated execution of this specific test file.
REQUIRED FINAL PLAN OUTPUT
Return an implementation-ready final plan, including:
Exact root cause.
Exact file and portion that would change.
Every import required.
Complete proposed helper functions.
Complete proposed replacement client fixture.
Exact before/after code.
Explanation of how exact pre-test engine-map state is captured.
Explanation of why try begins before engine installation.
Explanation of how SQLite is installed without touching the displaced engine.
Explanation of the dialect-based fail-closed SQLite guard.
Confirmation that the guard occurs immediately before both db.create_all() and db.drop_all().
Explanation of behavior if setup fails.
Explanation of behavior if the test fails.
Explanation of behavior if teardown fails.
Explanation of restoration when an original cached engine existed.
Explanation of restoration when no cached engine existed.
Confirmation that the original PostgreSQL/Supabase engine is NEVER disposed.
Confirmation that only the temporary SQLite engine is disposed.
Confirmation that restoration happens before SQLite disposal.
Explanation of why no database operation occurs during restoration.
Explanation of why the resulting fixture cannot execute destructive schema operations against PostgreSQL/Supabase.
Confirmation that no unrelated test behavior would change.
Exact single-file pytest command recommended for later, after separate implementation approval and then separate testing approval.
Before returning the plan, perform a static self-review of the proposed code and specifically look for:
any engine-map mutation occurring before try;
any .dispose() call that could target the original engine;
any failure path that could leave SQLite cached;
any failure path that could restore PostgreSQL before db.drop_all();
any destructive database operation lacking an immediately preceding SQLite assertion;
any cleanup operation that could access PostgreSQL;
any unnecessary modification outside the fixture;
any dependency on querying a real database for verification.
Correct any such issue in the proposed plan itself before presenting it.
PLAN ONLY.

DO NOT IMPLEMENT.

DO NOT RUN ANYTHING.

STOP after presenting the final implementation-ready plan and wait for approval.

