Batch 2 UX/UI — Implementation
Implement the approved Batch 2 plan with the final narrowed scope below only.
Batch 1 is already implemented and must be preserved.
Authorized change
Modify only:
templates/home.html
In the existing .hc-idea-dismiss CSS rule:
Change min-width: 44px → min-width: 48px
Change min-height: 44px → min-height: 48px
Update the associated comment from 44×44px tap target to 48×48px tap target
Preserve every other property in the rule exactly as currently implemented.
The visible × glyph must remain the same size and appearance. We are enlarging only the tappable button area.
Explicitly do NOT change
Do not modify:
.home-match-primary
.bl-chip
.chip
.tp-chip
.bl-happening-dismiss
.bl-opp-dismiss
.hc-dismiss-x
.td-success-close
.td-edit-link
.fr-copy-link
.fr-show-qr-btn
.bl-btn-ghost
The first three appear unused in the current consumer UI, and the remaining applicable Batch 2 controls are already resolved by Batch 1. Do not broaden the scope or substitute another control.
Protect Batch 1
Do not alter any other Batch 1 styling, layout, typography, spacing, templates, components, or behavior.
Do not refactor or clean up nearby CSS.
No functional changes
Do not modify:
Python/backend code
JavaScript
routes
dismissal behavior
database/schema/data
Secrets
startup migration code
tests
Validation
After making the change, perform source inspection only and confirm:
.hc-idea-dismiss now has min-width: 48px.
.hc-idea-dismiss now has min-height: 48px.
Its visible glyph styling is unchanged.
Its existing dismissal behavior/handler is unchanged.
No other selector was modified.
No other file was modified.
Do not run pytest.
Do not restart BaseLodge.
Do not access Supabase.
Do not change Secrets.
Do not commit or push.
Do not publish.
Delivery report
Return:
exact file changed
exact before/after values
confirmation only the authorized CSS rule/comment changed
confirmation Batch 1 was otherwise untouched
confirmation no tests were run
confirmation BaseLodge was not restarted
confirmation no database was accessed
confirmation nothing was committed, pushed, or published
Then stop and wait for approval.