Implement the Trip Status system across BaseLodge and update all relevant pages so the product consistently distinguishes between a trip that is Planning versus Going.
This is not just an Edit Trip change. It is a cross-app product and UI update.
The goal is to add a meaningful social signal everywhere trips appear, while keeping the design calm, editorial, and consistent with the BaseLodge design system.
Goal
Add a binary trip status field:
planning
going
And update all relevant surfaces so this status is:
editable
visible
useful
consistent
not visually noisy
This should improve the social usefulness of the app:
Planning means the trip is still flexible and invites coordination
Going means the trip is real and others should plan around it
Product rules
Status model
Use a binary status only:
planning
going
Do not add extra states like tentative, booked, confirmed, completed, etc.
Default
New trips should default to:
planning
Existing trips
Backfill existing trips conservatively and simply:
set existing trips to going
This is because existing trips were created before the distinction existed and were likely intended as real trips.
Design system
Use the existing BaseLodge design language across all updated screens:
warm cream background
deep red / bordeaux accent
serif headlines where appropriate
clean sans-serif body
hairline dividers
minimal containers
calm editorial tone
mobile-first
Do not introduce Tailwind, React, or heavy new styling systems.
Keep styling consistent with the new Edit Trip direction.
Core visual rule for status
On owner-facing surfaces
Use a subtle inline label / meta treatment:
Going should be visually emphasized in bordeaux
Planning should be visible too, but quieter and more neutral
Both states matter. Do not hide Planning entirely.
On friend-facing surfaces
Prefer verb-based language rather than badge spam:
Sam is planning Vail
Sam is going to Vail
This should feel natural and editorial.
Guardrail
Status must not appear as a badge in more than one primary location per screen.
Prefer:
owner surfaces → subtle inline meta or small status label
friend surfaces → verb-based phrasing
Avoid:
repeating status visually multiple times on the same screen
loud chips or pills all over the UI
status feeling bolted on
If a user or their friends cannot easily understand the difference between planning and going trips at a glance, the feature is not successful. Avoid implementing status as a passive label with no product impact.
Pages / surfaces to update
You must update all of the following so the design and UX stay consistent across the app.
1. DATA MODEL + BACKEND
Add field
Add a trip status field to the trip model:
trip_status
enum or equivalent constrained string:
planning
going
Requirements
default new trips to planning
migrate/backfill existing trips to going
make sure status is included everywhere trip data is queried, serialized, or rendered
application layer should gracefully treat NULL as planning if encountered
Do not overengineer
no extra statuses
no major backend rewrite
keep this surgical and compatible with current architecture
2. DB FIELD + MIGRATION
Add trip_status = db.Column(db.String(10), nullable=True, default='planning') to SkiTrip in models.py.
Create an Alembic migration following the exact pattern of the most recent migration style already in the repo:
use batch_alter_table
add the column as nullable=True
in the same upgrade() function, run a raw SQL backfill:
UPDATE ski_trip SET trip_status = 'going' WHERE trip_status IS NULL
Apply the migration before testing the rest of the changes.
Run:
flask db upgrade
Do not add a DB-level default if that creates inconsistency with existing migration style. The app layer should handle fallback safely.
3. ADD TRIP FLOW
Update the backend creation flow so newly created trips default to planning.
In the two main user-facing SkiTrip(...) constructors:
add_trip route
API create_trip route
add:
trip_status='planning'
Do not touch seed/test/admin creation sites unless necessary.
Do not redesign Add Trip UI right now unless absolutely needed for consistency. The important part is that new trips are stored as planning.
add_trip.html should remain untouched.
4. EDIT TRIP SCREEN
Update the redesigned Edit Trip screen to include a new STATUS section.
Main structure
The Edit Trip screen should now have these sections:
LOCATION
DATES
STATUS
PRIVACY
Status row
Add a tappable row:
If planning:
value: Planning
subtext: Still figuring things out. Dates may change.
If going:
value: Going
subtext: This trip is happening.
Visual rules:
Going value should use bordeaux emphasis
Planning should use default/darker neutral text
keep it calm and premium, not loud
Header subtitle
On the Edit Trip screen:
if trip is planning, keep subtitle simple:
Apr 15 → Apr 17 · 3 nights
if trip is going, append a subtle bordeaux status indicator:
Apr 15 → Apr 17 · 3 nights · GOING
Do not append PLANNING everywhere. That adds noise.
Status editor
Tapping STATUS should open a bottom sheet.
Use the same design language as the Privacy sheet:
two large clean selectable options
Planning
Going
Descriptions:
Planning → Still figuring things out. Dates may change.
Going → This trip is happening.
Behavior:
user taps STATUS row
bottom sheet opens
user selects option
explicit save/confirm inside the sheet
dismissing without saving should not persist changes
confirmed selection updates pending state on Edit Trip
final main save still happens via sticky Save button on the Edit Trip page
Keep the save model consistent with the rest of Edit Trip.
Dirty state
Track status in the JS pending object and include it in dirty-state comparison.
Dirty state must only activate when status actually changes from its initial value.
Do not trigger the Save button by merely opening the status sheet or tapping around without confirming a new value.
Hidden form field
Include a hidden input in the edit save form:
trip_status
5. EDIT TRIP ROUTE — SAVE STATUS
In the edit_trip_form POST handler:
read trip_status = request.form.get("trip_status", "planning")
validate it is one of:
planning
going
if invalid, default to planning
save:
trip.trip_status = trip_status
persist before db.session.commit()
Also:
pass trip.trip_status into the edit_trip.html context so JS can initialize the correct initial value
update all edit render paths to pass the needed context consistently
On successful edit POST:
keep the new Edit Trip experience intact
redirect to trip_detail
6. TRIP DETAIL PAGE
Update the Trip Detail page design so trip status is clearly but subtly visible.
Requirements
if trip is going, show a small bordeaux GOING label near the date range
if trip is planning, either render nothing or an ultra-subtle neutral label only if it looks clean
keep the page calm and editorial
do not clutter the hero/header area
the GOING label must be small, low-profile, and inline with the date row
avoid large pills, boxed badges, or chips
Also:
if there is an edit entry point from Trip Detail, make sure it still routes into the new Edit Trip experience
Optional nudge
If straightforward to implement cleanly, add a lightweight nudge on Trip Detail:
If:
trip is within 14 days
and status is still planning
show a subtle prompt such as:
Is this trip happening?
with a quick link to:
url_for('edit_trip_form', trip_id=trip.id)
This is optional if it adds too much complexity. If skipped, note it clearly.
7. MY TRIPS / TRIPS LIST PAGE
Update the user’s Trips list so trip status is visible on each row/card.
Requirements
For each upcoming trip row/card:
if going, append a subtle bordeaux Going
if planning, append a subtle muted Planning
Both states should be visible here because the user cares about both and is comparing their own trips.
Placement
Status should be appended inline with existing metadata, not added as a separate line.
Examples:
Apr 15–17 · Going
Apr 20–22 · Planning
Avoid:
stacking status on a new row
adding heavy visual weight
making status compete with the destination name
If necessary, lightly adjust spacing or hierarchy so the added status does not make the layout feel cramped.
All template CSS additions must be inline in the template. Do not modify styles.css.
8. FRIENDS PAGE / FRIENDS LIST
Update friend-facing trip references to use verb-based phrasing rather than status badges.
Examples:
Sam is planning Beaver Creek · Apr 15
Sam is going to Beaver Creek · Apr 15
Use this pattern wherever a friend’s next trip appears in feed-style or descriptor-style surfaces.
Do not also add GOING/PLANNING badges if the sentence already conveys status.
Prefer natural language.
If minor spacing or copy adjustments are needed in friends.html, make them so the page still feels intentional and not patched.
9. FRIEND PROFILE PAGE
Update the friend profile trip rows so status is visible, but keep it subtle.
Requirements
On each upcoming trip row:
if going, show a small bordeaux Going
if planning, show a muted Planning
Keep this light:
small text
inline or secondary line
no large pills or boxed treatment
no duplicate emphasis if the row already says “is going to” in surrounding copy
Use inline style only if needed.
10. HOME PAGE / SECONDARY CARD / SOCIAL SIGNALS
Update any Home page modules that surface friend trip overlap or best-match style recommendations.
If a surfaced friend trip is planning:
use natural language like:
Sam is planning Vail
If a surfaced friend trip is going:
use:
Sam is going to Vail
Adjust surrounding copy so the layout still reads naturally.
Do not just tack on a badge if the sentence can carry the meaning.
If layout needs slight adjustment for wrapping, make those adjustments so the UI still feels polished on mobile.
11. IDEAS PAGE
Update overlap / idea surfaces so trip status appears and matters.
Requirements
When a friend overlap involves a going trip:
show that in the supporting text
keep it secondary, not dominant
Examples:
Sam also has Epic · Going
or use more natural wording where the layout allows
When a trip is planning:
either omit status or show Planning in muted secondary text if helpful
Important
In Ideas, status should only appear in supporting text and never dominate the primary message.
Avoid:
badges
bold emphasis
color overuse
If easy and low risk:
you may prefer going overlaps over planning only in copy
do not change ranking algorithms in this task
Keep this additive and non-breaking.
12. HOME / IDEAS SUPPORTING LOGIC
Where needed in the Python layer:
include trip_status in dicts / card payloads / helper outputs used by Home and Ideas
make supporting lines status-aware
keep fallbacks graceful when trip_status is missing or NULL
Do not rewrite ranking logic.
Do not create unnecessary abstraction.
13. FRIEND-FACING COPY RULES
Use these exact status terms:
Planning
Going
Use these exact descriptions in Edit Trip:
Still figuring things out. Dates may change.
This trip is happening.
Friend-facing phrasing should prefer:
is planning
is going to
Examples:
Sam is planning Vail
Sam is going to Vail
Use direct natural phrasing, not awkward shorthand like:
Sam going Vail
Going Vail
14. EDIT FLOW DESIGN CONSISTENCY
Make sure the new status system does not feel bolted on.
All updated pages should feel visually consistent with the new editorial direction:
subtle section headers
rows carry the weight
no generic form controls where not needed
no noisy badge overload
calm premium hierarchy
If any affected pages now feel visually inconsistent because of the added status content, refine those pages too.
This includes:
spacing
text hierarchy
label treatment
card/row density
alignment
Do not just jam status text into old layouts.
15. SAVE / DIRTY STATE / INTERACTION RULES
Keep the Edit Trip save model consistent:
edits update pending state
sticky Save activates only when actual values differ from initial values
final save persists all fields including status
Track dirty state against initial values for:
resort_id
start_date
end_date
is_public
trip_status
Do not activate Save from mere interaction.
16. FILES / IMPLEMENTATION SCOPE
Work in the appropriate existing Flask + Jinja templates, routes, and model files needed to implement this end to end.
Likely areas include:
trip model
migration/backfill logic
add trip create flow
edit trip route/template
trip detail template
trips list template
friends/feed templates or descriptor builders
ideas template / supporting logic
home template / supporting logic
Use the existing architecture.
Keep this surgical and production-minded.
Do not:
rewrite unrelated flows
introduce new frameworks
create unnecessary abstraction
17. QA REQUIREMENTS
Test this thoroughly in Replit preview.
Data / backend
existing trips backfilled correctly
new trips default to planning
edits persist status correctly
Edit Trip
STATUS row appears
status sheet opens correctly
selecting status works
dismiss without save does not persist
sticky Save activates only on actual changes
save persists status with other edits
Trip Detail
going status displays correctly
design still feels clean
no clutter/regressions
Trips list
planning/going appears correctly on user’s own trips
spacing and hierarchy remain clean
Friends / social surfaces
friend trip phrasing updates correctly
no awkward badge spam
copy reads naturally
Friend Profile
status appears subtly and cleanly
Ideas
going/planning signal appears correctly
supporting lines stay clean and secondary
Home
surfaced friend-trip signals include status where relevant
layout still works on mobile
Stability
no console errors
no broken routes
no regressions to existing trip behavior
mobile layout remains clean across affected pages
18. FINAL REQUIREMENT
Do not stop after only updating the model or Edit Trip screen.
This task is complete only when:
the status field exists and works
the Edit Trip flow includes status editing
the Trip Detail page reflects it
the Trips list reflects it
friend-facing pages reflect it
Ideas reflects it
Home reflects it
all affected pages still feel intentionally designed
Do not finish until you have tested the full flow end to end in Replit preview and confirmed the design changes were applied across all relevant pages, not just one.