We diagnosed the Plan a Trip state dropdown issue and now need to choose the right fix approach before coding.
What we know
There are two separate issues:
STATE_ABBR_MAP is imported in app.py but does not exist in utils/countries.py
this causes an import failure and silent fallback
result: production may show raw state codes like CO instead of Colorado
The actual reason the state dropdown cannot be selected in local/dev is that the dropdown is derived from resort data, and local/dev currently has no active resort data loaded
resorts = []
deriveStates('US') returns []
JS sets stateSelect.disabled = true
So the real blocker is missing local resort seed data, while the missing map is a separate bug that still needs to be fixed.
Goal
Give me the best implementation plan to fix this correctly, without breaking production.
I want you to evaluate the best approach for local/dev and recommend the proper implementation path before making any code changes.
What I want from this plan
1. Confirm intended architecture
Explain how the Plan a Trip page is supposed to work today:
where resort data is expected to come from
whether the state dropdown is intentionally derived from active resorts
whether local/dev is expected to have seeded resort data for this page to function
2. Compare the fix options
Evaluate these options and recommend one:
Option A — preferred if correct
Restore or seed local resort data so the state dropdown works as designed
Option B
Add a graceful fallback in dev if resorts are empty
For example:
show a full state list even if no resorts exist
or keep the dropdown enabled with fallback data
For each option, explain:
pros
cons
risk to production behavior
whether it matches current architecture
3. Address the missing constant
Include in the plan a fix for the missing STATE_ABBR_MAP in utils/countries.py
Requirements:
all US state abbreviations mapped to full names
imports in app.py should succeed
state labels should display properly
4. Recommend the correct implementation sequence
Tell me the best order to implement:
missing constant
local/dev resort fix or fallback
browser QA
5. File impact
Identify which files would likely need changes for the final implementation:
app.py
utils/countries.py
templates/add_trip.html
any resort seed/import logic
any dev startup/init scripts if relevant
6. QA plan
Tell me exactly what should be tested after implementation:
Add Trip page in local/dev
dropdown opens
states are selectable
labels show full names
no regression in production-oriented logic
behavior when no resorts exist, if that case is still possible
Constraints
This is a planning pass only
Do not code yet
Do not over-engineer
Keep production-safe behavior
Prefer the cleanest fix that matches BaseLodge’s intended architecture
Use checkpoints sparingly
At the end, give me:
the recommended fix approach
why it is the right one
likely files to change
anything that should be decided before coding