I need to find two specific users in BaseLodge's databases. Both 
users exist in the live production app at app.baselodgeapp.com. 
I need to figure out which database the production app is actually 
reading from.

The users I'm looking for:
- Brennan Gibbons
- Justin Rosenthal

Please do all of the following:

Q1. Confirm whether these users exist in instance/baselodge.db by 
running:
    SELECT id, first_name, last_name, email, created_at 
    FROM "user" 
    WHERE (first_name ILIKE 'Brennan' AND last_name ILIKE 'Gibbons')
       OR (first_name ILIKE 'Justin' AND last_name ILIKE 'Rosenthal');
    
    Paste the result. If zero rows, say so explicitly.

Q2. Check the SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL secret in the Replit 
environment. Without revealing the password, tell me:
    - Does this secret exist?
    - What is the host portion of the URL? (e.g., 
      db.xxxxx.supabase.co or aws-0-us-east-1.pooler.supabase.com)
    - What is the database name?
    - What is the username?
    - What is the project reference (the xxxxx part of the host)?

Q3. Try to connect to SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL directly using psql 
or a Python script with psycopg2. If you can connect, run:
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM "user";
    SELECT id, first_name, last_name, email, created_at 
    FROM "user" 
    WHERE (first_name ILIKE 'Brennan' AND last_name ILIKE 'Gibbons')
       OR (first_name ILIKE 'Justin' AND last_name ILIKE 'Rosenthal');
    
    Paste both results. If you cannot connect, paste the exact 
    error message.

Q4. List all secrets in the Replit environment whose names contain 
any of these substrings: DATABASE, POSTGRES, DB_, SUPABASE, PROD, 
LIVE. List only the secret names, not values. I want to see if 
there's another database connection string I don't know about.

Q5. The production app runs at app.baselodgeapp.com. Determine 
where it is deployed:
    - Look for these files and tell me which exist: .replit, 
      replit.nix, replit.deploy, vercel.json, render.yaml, 
      Procfile, Dockerfile, fly.toml, netlify.toml, railway.json
    - If .replit exists, paste its contents
    - Check if there's a Replit Deployments configuration for 
      this project
    - Tell me the deployment target (Replit Deployments, Vercel, 
      Render, Railway, Fly, etc.)

Q6. Determine whether the current Replit workspace is the same 
environment as the deployed production app, or a separate dev 
workspace:
    - Check if there's a deployment URL different from the 
      workspace URL
    - Check if changes pushed to this workspace would automatically 
      affect app.baselodgeapp.com
    - Tell me clearly: is this workspace connected to production, 
      or separated from it?

Q7. If Replit Deployments is being used for this project, look 
at the deployment configuration and tell me:
    - What environment variables are set on the deployment 
      (just names, not values)
    - Whether the deployment's DATABASE_URL or SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL 
      is different from the workspace's
    - When the deployment was last updated or rebuilt
    - The deployment's run command

Q8. Search the codebase for any reference to "baselodgeapp.com" 
to find where the production domain is configured. Paste any 
relevant lines.

Q9. Check the DNS / hosting situation: when a request hits 
app.baselodgeapp.com, where does it actually go? If you can 
determine this from the codebase or config files, tell me. If 
not, say unknown.

Format: numbered answers, factual, no recommendations or suggested 
fixes. I am trying to locate where Brennan Gibbons and Justin 
Rosenthal's user records actually live. They are real users in 
the production app, so their data exists in some database 
somewhere — I need to find which one.