🚨 BUG: Resort dropdown is empty on Add Trip screen
Observed behavior:
State dropdown works (e.g. “Utah” can be selected)
Resort dropdown renders but contains no options
Placeholder “Choose a resort…” is the only item
This indicates a data population failure, not a UI issue.
REQUIRED INVESTIGATION (DO NOT SKIP STEPS)
1. Confirm resort data exists
Verify at least one of the following:
Resorts exist in the database
Resorts exist in a static data structure (list / dict / JSON)
Explicitly report:
Source of truth for resorts (DB table? Python list? JSON file?)
Count of resorts available
If zero resorts exist → that is the root cause.
2. Trace how resorts are passed to the template
In the add_trip route:
Log what variable is being passed to the template for resorts
Confirm it is non-empty
Example:
print("Resorts passed to template:", resorts)
If resorts is empty or undefined → fix the backend query.
3. State → Resort filtering logic
If resorts are filtered by state:
Confirm the selected state value matches the resort data
Check for:
Case mismatches (Utah vs UT)
Abbreviation vs full name mismatches
Example failure:
State dropdown uses "Utah"
Resort data uses "UT"
This must be normalized.
4. JavaScript dependency check (if applicable)
If resorts load dynamically:
Confirm JS event fires on state change
Confirm API endpoint returns data
Required checks:
Network tab → does the request fire?
Response → is JSON empty or populated?
Log the response payload.
5. Template rendering verification
Inspect the <select> for resorts:
Confirm a {% for %} loop exists
Confirm the loop variable matches what the route provides
Example failure:
{% for resort in resorts %}
but backend sends mountains
Fix naming mismatch.
REQUIRED FIX
Once root cause is identified:
Ensure resorts populate immediately after state selection
Resort dropdown must:
Show options
Be disabled if no state selected
Update correctly on state change
OUTPUT REQUIRED
Report back with:
Root cause (DB empty, query bug, filter mismatch, JS not firing, etc.)
Exact fix applied
Confirmation that:
Selecting Utah shows Utah resorts
Resort can be selected and saved
Do not move on until the dropdown is populated.