PLAN MODE ONLY. DO NOT IMPLEMENT ANYTHING. DO NOT RUN ANY TESTS. DO NOT EXECUTE ANY DATABASE OPERATIONS.
Create a narrowly scoped implementation plan to fix the dangerous database-isolation defect in:
tests/test_profile_consolidation.py
Objective
The sole objective is to make tests/test_profile_consolidation.py structurally incapable of executing db.create_all(), db.drop_all(), test inserts, test deletes, or any other database mutation against PostgreSQL/Supabase.
Every database operation performed by this test file must occur only against an isolated SQLite in-memory database.
This is a safety-critical fix following an incident in which the existing test isolation failed and destructive test cleanup reached a real Supabase database.
Keep this fix as small and isolated as possible.
Known defect
The current fixture attempts isolation using:
app.config['SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI'] = 'sqlite:///:memory:'
That is insufficient because Flask-SQLAlchemy may already have created and cached the application's engine in db._app_engines.
Changing SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI afterward does not necessarily replace the cached engine used by:
db.engine
db.session
db.create_all()
db.drop_all()
The plan should therefore use the same underlying engine-swap concept already used by the project's safe test infrastructure in tests/conftest.py, while adding additional fail-closed protections appropriate for this specific regression test.
Required design
Design the smallest possible change to tests/test_profile_consolidation.py that does all of the following:
1. Create an isolated SQLite in-memory engine
Use SQLAlchemy with:
sqlite:///:memory:
StaticPool
connect_args={"check_same_thread": False}
2. Temporarily replace Flask-SQLAlchemy's cached engine
Temporarily install the SQLite engine in the Flask-SQLAlchemy engine map used by this application.
Before doing so, capture the exact pre-test state of the engine map, including:
whether the None engine key existed at all; and
if it existed, the exact engine object stored there.
Do not merely store engines_map.get(None) because that does not distinguish between an absent key and a key whose value is None.
3. DO NOT dispose the displaced application/Supabase engine
This is an absolute requirement.
Temporarily replacing the cached engine reference and disposing an engine are separate operations.
The fixture must:
NEVER call .dispose() on the displaced PostgreSQL/Supabase engine;
NEVER close or otherwise manipulate its connection pool as part of the swap;
NEVER execute SQL against it as part of setup or teardown.
Only the temporary SQLite engine created specifically for the test may be disposed by this fixture.
4. Add a fail-closed SQLite safety assertion
Add a helper that verifies the currently active db.engine is SQLite.
It must inspect the actual active engine, not merely the Flask configuration value.
The assertion must run immediately before:
db.create_all()
and immediately before:
db.drop_all()
If the active engine is anything other than SQLite, execution must abort before the database operation occurs.
The failure message should clearly state that database isolation failed and the destructive operation was prevented.
5. Use explicit try/finally lifecycle protection
The fixture must use an explicit try/finally covering setup, yield, test execution, and teardown.
The finally block must restore the Flask-SQLAlchemy engine map to its exact pre-test state regardless of what happens during the test.
This must work correctly if:
the test passes;
the test fails;
fixture setup fails;
db.create_all() fails;
the SQLite safety assertion fails;
fixture teardown fails;
db.drop_all() fails;
the test raises an unexpected exception.
6. Correctly handle the case where no cached engine existed before the test
This is important.
If db._app_engines[app] did NOT contain the None key before the fixture installed SQLite, teardown must remove the temporary None entry.
It must NOT leave a disposed SQLite engine cached.
If the None key DID exist before the test, teardown must restore the exact original engine object.
In other words:
after the fixture finishes, the engine map must be structurally identical to its pre-test state with respect to the None engine entry.
7. Dispose only SQLite
After the original engine-map state has been restored, dispose the temporary SQLite engine.
The production/Supabase engine must never be disposed by this fixture.
8. No database operation during restoration
Restoring the engine-map reference must not involve:
connecting to Supabase;
executing SQL;
testing the Supabase connection;
querying tables;
migrations;
schema inspection;
create_all;
drop_all;
session operations.
Restoration should only restore the Python-side cached-engine state.
Scope restriction
The only file that may eventually be modified is:
tests/test_profile_consolidation.py
Do NOT propose changes to:
app.py
models.py
tests/conftest.py
application routes
startup migrations
Flask configuration
Replit Secrets
Supabase configuration
deployment configuration
authentication
production code
any other test file
Do not bundle unrelated test modernization into this fix.
Specifically, do NOT proactively change:
model field names;
rider_type;
pass_type;
Resort fields;
login behavior;
route behavior;
test assertions;
test data;
application behavior.
If any of those cause a test failure later, they can be addressed separately after the database-safety fix has been implemented and verified.
ABSOLUTE SAFETY RESTRICTIONS FOR THIS PLAN
During this Plan-mode task:
DO NOT:
modify any file;
run pytest;
run any individual test;
start the Flask application;
run the Replit app;
run migrations;
run Alembic;
invoke application startup for verification;
execute db.create_all();
execute db.drop_all();
execute SQL;
connect to either Supabase project;
query either Supabase project;
perform a "read-only verification" against either Supabase project;
inspect production tables by connecting to the database;
insert data;
update data;
delete data;
truncate data;
create tables;
alter tables;
drop tables;
change SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL;
change RECOVERED_SUPABASE_DATABASE_URL;
change any Secret;
reconnect the application;
republish or redeploy anything.
Source-code inspection is allowed.
Important: do not use a real database as the safety test
Do NOT propose verifying this fix by subsequently querying either the old Supabase project or the recovered Supabase project.
The safety of the fixture must be demonstrable from:
the engine swap;
the fail-closed SQLite assertions;
exact engine-state restoration;
test isolation;
and, later, test execution against SQLite.
We should not need to touch a real database to prove that a test does not touch a real database.
Required output
Return a plan containing:
The exact defect being fixed.
The exact portion of tests/test_profile_consolidation.py that would change.
The proposed minimal helper(s).
The proposed complete replacement client fixture.
The exact before/after code.
An explanation of how the engine's pre-test state is captured.
An explanation of how the original state is restored when an original cached engine exists.
An explanation of how the original state is restored when no cached engine existed.
Confirmation that the displaced PostgreSQL/Supabase engine is never disposed.
Confirmation that only the temporary SQLite engine is disposed.
An explanation of how _assert_sqlite() prevents create_all() and drop_all() from reaching PostgreSQL.
An explanation of how the explicit try/finally behaves under setup failure, test failure, and teardown failure.
Why the resulting fixture is structurally incapable of executing destructive test cleanup against Supabase.
The exact single-file pytest command you would recommend running later, after I separately approve implementation and testing.
Do not include any step that queries a real database after testing.
STOP after presenting the plan. DO NOT IMPLEMENT IT. DO NOT RUN ANYTHING.